All right, so hello, everybody.
My name is Joseph,
and I'm here to show you the introduction
to Final Cut Pro HD demonstration.
Now,
I'm actually following this up with the
advanced Final Cut Pro right after this.
So assuming I don't lose my voice,
how many people are still planning
on sticking around for that?
About half of you.
Okay, so that's good to know.
So when I go through this one,
what I'm going to basically be
doing throughout this demonstration
is building an entire project,
and I'm going to be skipping
certain steps during this demo,
which I will cover in the advanced demo.
And then when I get to the advanced demo,
I will have to redo some of the steps
to get to kind of where I left off,
but I'll go over them a lot more quickly,
assuming that since
it's the advanced demo,
most people know some of
those more basic features.
So if you are going
to watch both of them,
there will be just a
little bit of overlap,
but I'll try to keep that
as minimal as possible.
But first, before we get to the demo,
let's go through a few slides here.
That's me.
I'm Joseph Linaschke.
I'm the Technical Marketing Manager at
Apple in the Pro Apps group,
and I run a group that is responsible
for creating all the demo content for
all the Pro Apps for use worldwide.
So that's all the retail stores,
the trade shows, the road shows,
et cetera.
So anywhere you go and you
see the demos of the Pro Apps,
chances are it's my
team that created them,
so kind of fun.
So let's go right into it.
What's Apple all about?
Well, you all know, obviously,
Apple's all about innovation,
and one of the latest
pieces of innovation that
we had is Final Cut Pro HD.
Now, I'm going to get into the HD side
of this in the advanced demo,
because clearly HD is
an advanced feature.
But for now,
I just want to go through some
of the basic underpinnings of
Final Cut and where it's being used.
Over a quarter of a million
people are using Final Cut Pro.
How many people out here
are already using it?
Quite a few of you.
Okay, so you guys,
plus almost a quarter million more,
make up that number.
So we've got quite a few users out there,
which is great.
Really good for us.
And it's being used all over the place.
Places like in standard broadcast houses,
ABC, Channel 4 News,
that sort of thing is using it.
Recently used on the movie,
the Coen Brothers movie,
The Lady Killers, if you saw that,
that was cut on Final Cut.
Also Cold Mountain was
cut on Final Cut Pro.
Quite a few films out there and
that list is always growing.
The episodic show Nib Tuck,
if you've ever seen that,
that's cut in Towerland Final Cut Pro.
It's actually shot on film,
even though it's broadcast
standard definition,
regular TV.
It's shot on film,
telecinated down to an HD format,
and then brought further down
to a standard definition format,
cut on Final Cut Pro and
output for broadcast.
That workflow means that in
the future they can go back
up to HD if they ever want to.
And since they use Final Cut,
they'll be able to use the
same software throughout and
it'll actually be pretty easy.
I have a video that I want to show you,
which,
how many people were in the keynote?
I'm assuming all of you saw the keynote.
So this video is going to
sound a little bit familiar.
This is the video that we produced for
the NAB show as a demo reel of what our
customers are doing with the application.
Let's go ahead and switch
over to the computer.
back to the machine.
I'm going to stay on there.
So, because I know I'll get a lot
of questions about the reel.
First off, I'll say,
one of the most common questions is,
was that created entirely with
Motion and with Final Cut Pro?
Well, it was cut in Final Cut Pro,
and Motion was used in it,
but it was not done entirely with Motion.
I'm only saying that to lay
down the point that it's not
all about Apple-only tools.
We, of course, rely heavily on you guys,
on the third-party developers,
and there's a lot of third-party
applications and plug-ins and
effects and so on that were used
in the production of that piece.
So, it's not all just about us,
even though we tend to turn out
a few really cool things here.
So, clearly, that also is not just
about Final Cut Pro.
You saw all the apps covered in there,
DVD Studio Pro, Logic, Final Cut Pro,
Shake, and Motion.
If you guys saw,
if you missed the Motion demo
earlier this week,
it's a shame.
It's a fantastic demonstration
that was on Wednesday.
Later on today,
we also have a Logic presentation and a,
what's that?
Music thing.
Logic.
Logic, I said that.
DVD Studio Pro,
that's what I wanted to say.
A DVD Studio Pro presentation
this afternoon as well.
Alright, so back to this.
So the reel that you just saw,
another kind of really
interesting thing about this,
you're watching it in HD.
That was a high-definition image,
720p HD at 24 frames per second.
This is not high-def projection,
so it was scaled down
for this resolution.
But the really interesting thing
is that that was actually playing
off of the Final Cut Pro timeline,
off of the internal hard drive.
Just one.
The internal hard drive on a G5.
Which tells you that you can do, today,
high-definition editing with
this new DVC Pro HD format
off the internal hard drive.
A single internal hard drive on your G5.
And actually,
everything I'm going to do today
is off this internal drive.
I, frankly, couldn't be asked to
bring up my RAID today.
So that's why we're just
running off the internal.
The RAID will give you
a lot of advantages.
For example,
more streams of real-time HD.
Obviously,
it will give you faster speed in general.
And, of course,
clearly a whole lot more storage.
Three and a half terabytes
of storage under your desk.
Which is a nice thing to
have when you're doing HD.
But, for today's demo,
this is all run off the internal.
So let's go ahead and get started
with Final Cut Pro itself.
I'm going to introduce you to
the application with a brief
tour of the interface here.
Let's get a couple things open.
And also a brief explanation
of the standard workflow.
Now,
Final Cut Pro HD is simply the name of
the newest version of Final Cut Pro.
It's Final Cut Pro 4.5 Final Cut Pro HD.
The HD name we just added on
with the most recent release.
Just to remind you.
We really drive the point home
that this release is all about HD.
High Definition.
However, that doesn't mean that we've
left everybody else behind.
We still handle all
formats in one application.
So you've got DV, Standard Definition,
Uncompressed, High Definition, and so on.
And you can even do
film if you incorporate
Cinema Tools into your workflow.
And we're not going to go
into all of that right now,
being the introductory one.
But the point that I'm making
here is that regardless of
the format you're working in.
Again, Standard Def, DV, High Def,
whatever.
The workflow is identical.
You have the exact same interface.
You have the same set of tools.
It's the same 999 piece of software.
So your options here are
really quite limitless.
If you get into this business,
you get into this industry,
starting with DV as many people do.
Move into a broadcast space and then
eventually move into High Definition.
Unlike some other competitive tools,
there is no huge learning curve
to go from step to step to step.
It's all there.
It's all the exact same tools.
Now, the demonstration I will be
doing today is High Definition.
But this could be just
as easily DV footage.
So let's briefly talk about the workflow.
How you get your stuff into
the computer to start with.
Let's just start with DV.
Let's assume that we're mostly
going to be talking about DV today.
So you've all seen DV cameras.
You can buy many DV cameras
from Circuit City or Best Buy.
They're as cheap as, you know,
like $500 or maybe even less these days.
Of course,
the DV cameras go up quite a bit.
You can get the 3-chip
cameras from Sony and Canon.
They're really, really nice.
Get up to a couple thousand dollars.
But regardless,
it shoots the same format, DV.
So DV is a digital format,
digital video format that is recorded
under those itty bitty little tapes.
I'm sure you've seen those before.
There's actually different flavors of DV.
There's DV cam,
which is slightly higher quality.
But don't worry about that.
We'll just think DV as general DV.
From your camera,
you have a FireWire port.
Or if you're in a studio environment,
you'll have a deck,
a DV deck that has a FireWire port on it.
And the way, of course,
that you get your DV footage from the
tapes into the computer is over FireWire.
It's as easy as plug and play.
Just plug the deck or the camera
straight into the back of your
G5 or your laptop computer.
Final Cut Pro.
Bring up something called
the Login Capture Window.
And you start capturing your footage.
Now, it's not quite as simple and
straightforward as iMovie.
iMovie is dead easy.
You just hit Capture and it automatically
goes through your tape and it selects
every shot and individually marks that
shot and puts it in a little bin for you.
And that's great for the
consumer side of things.
But this, of course,
is a professional application.
So you have professional tools to
do your logging and capturing with.
Now,
the term Login Capture generally means
that you are going to log a clip,
meaning you're going to
look at the tape and say,
I want from here to here.
And then I want from here to here.
And then from here to here.
And then you're going to capture later.
Something called a Batch Capture.
So you say take all these logged
clips and now capture them
while you go have a cappuccino.
So the whole point is that you sit down,
go through an hour of tape or 10 hours
or 100 hours of tape or hopefully have
your assistant editor doing that for you.
And that's not fun.
You mark down each clip that you want.
You mark this is a good take.
This is the best take.
This one is halfway decent.
Maybe it's good.
Make your little log notes in there.
And then just capture them all at
once and just have somebody feeding
the tapes into the deck for you.
So that's your standard procedure
of getting your content in.
That's your video footage.
If you're talking about
bringing in graphics,
well,
you just drag and drop your graphics in.
Text and titling we'll get
into here a little bit.
Everything else that you do is basically
just drag and drop into the application.
So let's get a quick
tour of the interface.
This is the standard
Final Cut Pro interface for working
with widescreen footage here.
You may rearrange the
windows however you like.
I'll actually probably rearrange
my windows a couple times
throughout this demo to accommodate
the work that I'm doing.
But this is a pretty standard layout.
On the top you have the
viewer and the canvas,
which you may also hear referred to
as the source and record monitors.
On the bottom we have the
browser and then the timeline.
So let's start with the browser.
The browser is where all
of your media is stored.
All the video that you've captured,
any video you've imported,
any graphics you've brought in, sound,
etc.
It's all stored in here.
And I can just expand this
window out a little bit.
And you'll see here that it
works basically like the Finder.
I have various folders or as they're
called bins inside of Final Cut Pro.
Each one of those bins can be nested.
It's just like in the Finder.
You can nest them and
nest them and nest them.
And you can color code them as well.
So you can tag them with
labels if you want to.
Over on the right side here,
you'll see there's quite a bit
of information about the shots.
So let's just select any clip on here.
You'll see I've got a comments column.
I have duration.
That's obviously how long the clip is.
The current marked in and
out points where the in and
out point is on the timeline.
And this just goes on and on and on.
And there is a huge,
huge amount of information in here.
As you can see in there,
there's just column after column.
We're not even looking
at all of them here.
These are the ones that
I've hidden right now.
So there is an absolutely huge
amount of metadata embedded in
every single video clip that is
exposed inside of Final Cut Pro.
Now,
if you're working in a screen like this,
and this is pretty low
resolutions by editing standards.
This is only 1280 wide,
so we really don't have
a whole lot of workspace.
And as you can see,
my browser is so narrow,
I can only see one column in here.
In a more traditional
working environment,
you'll have two screens.
In a professional environment,
you would usually have two screens.
And this browser would take up
the entirety of another screen.
Now,
it doesn't have to just be one window.
You can actually go in here
and open up the browser.
Let me find a folder in here
with a bunch of media in it.
Let's see here.
I'll take this one.
Just double click that.
It will open to a separate
window if I want it to.
I can even choose to view that as small,
medium, or large icons.
And when I do that,
I can obviously see what that
clip is a lot more clearly.
So you'll find if you have
that extra working space,
let's say you've got, I don't know,
a 30 inch in front of you
and a 23 off to the side.
As we all do, of course, right?
You've got plenty of
space to view your clips,
lay them out, spread them out,
however you want to.
Just on that note,
if you really want to set up
like the ultimate editing setup,
get one of those 30s in front of you.
Those things are so cool.
Get one of those 30s in front of you
and then you have 23 on each side.
Three displays.
Now, why on earth would you
want that much space?
Well,
having the 30 in front of you clearly
gives you enough space to have your
video and canvas up and a really big,
wide timeline.
In fact,
the 30 inch display is so high resolution
that you can have two 720p HD clips up
side by side at 99%. If you do the math,
you actually should be able to
get to 100% but there's a little
bit of interface in the way.
So I'm actually talking to
our engineers about that.
I'm going to see if I can
get that taken care of.
But you have enough pixels for
two HD pieces side by side.
That's kind of cool.
And then you've got a massive
timeline on the bottom and then
on your 23 inch off to the left,
you put all of your browsers.
You can open them up
into multiple windows.
All the space you could possibly
want to see all your clips.
And then on the right side,
you have your video out.
Now, what you saw,
the way I played this back
earlier was full screen.
Now,
since we only have one screen up here,
when I go into full screen mode
or when I go into video out mode,
let's just close this.
If I go into video out mode,
just hit the keyboard shortcut,
it fills up this screen.
But if I had a second display up here,
then you'd see this image on the second
display filling up that screen and I'd
still be able to work in my canvas,
my viewer and everything.
And be able to watch it on
that second screen over there.
That's actually a new
feature in Final Cut Pro HD,
something called digital video out.
We are basically sending the video
signal out over the DV port or
DVI port into a second monitor.
And if you go downstairs actually
on the second floor where they
have the 230 side by side,
you can see that setup.
They do have it set up so that
you can see the video full size
on the 30 inch monitor as well.
But anyway, so there's your ideal setup,
30 and 223s, you go.
Okay, you don't need all that,
but it's really cool if you can get it.
All right, so there's a quick
summary of the browser.
The viewer itself,
this is the viewer up here.
Any clip that I open from the browser,
let's just go ahead and
open up a shot here.
I double-clicked on a
clip in the browser.
It opens to the viewer.
The viewer is where I make
my editing decisions.
So let's say that you've captured
a 30-second shot of whatever,
somebody running down the beach.
And you don't want to use
that whole 30 seconds.
It's just too much footage.
So you need to make a select out
of that or mark an in-point and an
out-point to define what portion of
that clip you actually want to use.
Well, the way that you do that is
within the viewer window here.
You simply choose the position we want.
Let's just say, let's get something a
little bit more animated.
There we go.
So let's say that I want to
start the shot right there.
Now, to mark an in-point,
I have multiple ways of doing it.
I can click the little button on the
UI right there to mark the in-point.
And that triangle there
pointing to the right,
that way.
It's been a long night.
Pointing that direction is your in-point.
That's saying this is where
I want to start the clip.
Anything before that will not
get used when I drag this onto
the canvas or into the timeline.
Now, you do have non-destructive
editing in Final Cut Pro.
That means that anything you do,
you can always undo.
There's never any destruction to the
original clips on the hard drive.
So I can go in here and say,
only want this one second piece.
And then a year from now,
I really wish that I had that
second that I shot before it.
Well, it's still there, assuming,
obviously, you don't go to the hard
drive level and delete them.
But anyway, so that's how you mark.
And in-point.
There's keyboard shortcuts as well.
I could go in here and tap the
O key to mark an out-point,
the I key to mark an in-point.
And put the in and
out-points wherever you want.
And once they're defined there,
you can drag them around if you like.
Lots of different ways
to do the same thing.
And you'll actually find
that in Final Cut Pro.
There are lots of ways
to do the same thing.
So if you want to use the mouse,
you can do that.
If you like menus, you can do that.
Keyboard shortcuts, you can do that.
In fact, Final Cut Pro 4 introduced
a mappable keyboard,
which means that you have the ability now
to go in here and change the keyboard.
And you can do that.
You can change your keyboard layout to
accommodate your own personal tastes,
which I've found to be incredibly useful.
If there's a command that you use all
the time that the engineers didn't think
you would use all the time and you want
to assign a keyboard shortcut to it,
great.
Or maybe you're coming
from another system.
You're used to Premiere, for example.
And in Premiere,
the keyboard shortcut to mark
an in and out is different.
And you just don't feel like forcing
your brain to learn the new one.
Remap it.
Remap the keyboard to
work the way you want to.
All right, so back over here.
Once you've marked a clip in the viewer,
again, marking it,
meaning marking your in
points and your out points,
to add it to the project,
you simply drag and
drop it onto the canvas.
I can drop it onto the canvas
or directly onto the timeline,
and I'll just put it here kind
of in the middle of the timeline,
and you'll notice that it
is a little bit shorter.
I have not used this
part of the clip here,
so that part of the shot is missing,
of course,
because I've marked the in and the
out on there to trim that down.
And if I double-click on this clip,
it'll open it back into the viewer,
and before I do,
you'll notice down here where
the in and out is marked.
It's just a smooth, plain bar,
if you will.
If I double-click on it, it opens up,
and you see little tiny
sprocket holes on there.
The sprocket holes are
telling me that I'm opening
it directly from the timeline.
So if I make a change
to this clip up here,
it's going to affect it on the timeline.
So for example,
if I go in here and I move the out point,
you see the out point just
changed on the timeline as well.
If I drag it back out,
it goes out on the timeline like that,
too.
So I now have the ability to
continue to make my changes,
my edits, within the viewer directly.
All right, so that's getting stuff
onto the timeline.
There's obviously lots
of ways to do that.
As I mentioned with Final Cut,
there's multiple ways to do everything.
I drag this directly onto the timeline.
I can also drag onto the canvas itself.
And when I do that,
I get a series of options in here.
I have an insert, overwrite, replace,
fit to fill, and superimpose edit.
Now, we'll go through some
of these as we work,
but the primary ones you'll
use is insert and overwrite.
So let's just very quickly
see what that means.
Let me open up a different clip in here.
So here's another sunset clip.
If I put the play head at
the beginning of this shot,
so it's before the bird shot there,
and I drag this onto the
canvas and I choose overwrite,
it will literally overwrite that clip.
That second clip is now gone.
It has been taken over by the first one.
If that first clip had been longer,
let's just go ahead and stretch the
duration of that out a little bit,
and I'll actually shorten this one
just to really show this clearly.
Again, the play head is at the
beginning of the clip.
If I drag this onto overwrite,
it overwrites as much as it needs to,
and then the rest of the
other clip is still there.
So that is an overwrite edit.
It will overwrite.
It's a destructive edit.
Overwrite anything
that's on the timeline.
The other most common
edit is the insert edit,
which will basically push the media
that's there out of the way to make
room for the clip that's coming in.
So I go insert edit.
You can see on the timeline it pushed
that bird shot over a little bit
and made room for the one coming in.
So there's two different
standard common edits in there.
And then the others, like I said,
we'll get into a little bit more later.
Over on the right hand side
I have my tool palette,
your standard arrow,
all the different tools, your slip,
slide, ripple, roll tools, zooming tools,
your crop tools, distortion.
We'll get into some of these.
We won't hit all of them in
this introductory course,
but there's all the tools that you
would need to access are there.
And then down here on the bottom
right you have audio level meters
showing your current audio levels.
So when you're playing back
you can watch there and make
sure that you're not peaking.
You'll see here that
you have negative 12,
which is just as it starts
to go from green to orange,
minus 12 dB is actually the digital zero,
if you will.
You don't generally want to go over that.
And if the little lights flicker red,
then you're peaking.
And if you're doing digital audio,
that's generally considered
a very bad thing.
It'll sound horrible when
it goes back to tape or even
coming out of your home speaker.
So you'll definitely want to
keep an eye on your audio levels,
and that's what that's for.
All right, so before I get into
the actual demo itself,
we have any questions
about the interface?
And let me preface this by saying,
feel free any time throughout this demo.
to holler out questions.
Kent.
Okay.
Only that one instance.
So if I had this clip on
the timeline multiple times,
let's just paste that down there again,
and I open the first one,
change the out point of that.
Can I hear you?
Change the out point of that.
It only changes that one instance of it.
Cool.
You're welcome.
You can also...
That's not in Express.
Okay, I'll give a real quick overview
of what is not in Express.
Express is DV only.
So you have a majority of the tools set,
but you can only work in DV footage.
The question is about
Final Cut Express versus Final Cut Pro.
Final Cut Express does not include
live type or soundtrack to auxiliary
applications that accompany Final Cut.
Obviously,
it does not include cinema tools either.
And when you get into the
compositing side of things,
you have the majority of the compositing
tools in Express that you have in Pro.
And you'll see me use quite a
few of those compositing tools.
But you do not have a
compositing timeline,
which means if you want
to do advanced composites,
it gets really tricky in Express.
For that kind of stuff,
you really want to go with Pro.
You also don't have the ability
to... I think logging capture
is a little bit different.
I think that you can't log
multiple clips and capture later.
I think you can log one
clip and capture at a time.
So you can't log a series of offline
clips and then batch capture them later.
Those are the primary differences.
Yeah.
Okay, so the question's in reference to
frame rate differences and how you're
capturing between 30 frames per second,
standard NTSC, or 2997,
and Panasonic's 24 frame or
23.98 frames per second format.
Basically, when you do your initial
setup in Final Cut Pro,
you have something called an easy
setup that brings up a list of all
the different setup options that you
have for all the different formats
that you might want to capture.
And if you add third-party capture cards,
and this gets into more
of the advanced stuff,
but as you add third-party capture
cards like a Kona card or the
IO box or the CineWave card,
etc., you'll have additional
options to this list.
And you can see on here that
you have different frame rates,
different formats represented,
different codecs, and so on.
And so basically,
all you really need to do for 99% of
the time is choose the preset here,
and it will automatically set your frame
rate and everything to the right space.
If you have some custom setting
where you're going to kind of just
go into something that we have.
And if you hadn't thought of,
then of course you can customize
these and make whatever you want.
Does that answer your question?
Great.
Okay,
let's go ahead and get on with it then.
If you're going to stick
around for the advanced one,
I can go more into 24-frame
stuff when I get into there.
I'm just going to actually revert
this project so I can start clean.
And we'll start by building the piece.
Now here,
let's go ahead and play back the final
piece that I'm going to be building.
Now again,
being the introductory course here,
I'm not going to spend a whole
lot of time on some of the more
advanced functions of this.
I'll skip over them and I'll
just point out when I do.
I'll say I'll cover this
more in the advanced area.
But this is the basic project
that we'll be building today.
So that's the piece that
we're going to be building.
Now, this piece, obviously,
is not going to win any major awards.
It's pretty simple.
But just to drive the point home
of how flexible Final Cut Pro is,
again, this is all HD.
This is all 720p DVC Pro HD format,
which is the Panasonic HD format.
I edited this piece in the
course of two evenings,
maybe three, call it three evenings,
from about maybe 10:00,
11:00 at night until about 2:00 in
the morning at my parents' house when
I was on vacation on my 17-inch laptop
with an external FireWire drive,
a little 800 drive,
one of the little itty-bitty baby ones.
That's all that I needed to do this.
Okay, and some headphones.
That's it.
So the music was created in soundtrack.
No comments if you hate the music.
I'm not a musician.
I'm not even a drummer.
.
Those who know Phil,
the guy who-- Phil Jackson,
the guy who will be doing our
demo later today for Logic.
He's--I just stole his joke, but hey.
Anyway, there you go.
So...
The Final Cut Pro HD is a full HD,
ready for broadcast,
or print back to film,
whatever you're going to do, piece,
and it was edited entirely on a laptop.
That's kind of cool.
That's really saying something there.
All right, so let's go ahead and start
building this project up.
So first thing I'll do is
go ahead and add my audio.
Now here's the audio track.
Audio track was created in Soundtrack,
and I'll go into how it was
created in the next demo.
I'll actually open up Soundtrack
and show you the piece there.
But this was the music that
was created in Soundtrack.
Actually,
let's just launch Soundtrack real
quick and have a quick look-see at it.
You want to see it?
Yeah, all right.
I won't spend a lot of time in there.
There we go.
So, Soundtrack is really designed
for creating music for video.
I kind of did things a little
bit backwards here in that
I created the music first,
and then I went and
started doing the video,
and I went back and forth,
back and forth,
back and forth throughout the process.
This final piece actually doesn't
even have the video in it,
but if the video were in here,
it would be playing up in
this little window here.
But the reason I'm showing it
without is more to show that this
is how I originally created it.
I did create it without the video,
and then I cut the video
to match the music.
Did that make sense?
All right, so here's the piece up here.
As you can see,
it's a fair number of layers,
but not a huge number.
It starts off with a simple bass guitar.
You'll see there's a
little drop two octaves.
Can we bring the levels up just a little?
All right.
You see the different pieces coming in,
little symbols and tambourine rather.
There's four different
upright bases on there,
all playing different pieces,
and each layer in here is
a different loop pattern.
You'll also notice,
let's go ahead and open up
the bottom part of this.
There's actually a tempo adjustment here.
Things got just a little bit faster
here for this tempo adjustment.
And then towards the end here,
the tempo is going to drop considerably.
and that's all done inside of Soundtrack.
Right?
Not too bad.
So enough of that.
Let's just go ahead back to the app.
So that's how this music was created.
So back into Final Cut Pro.
So here's the project as an AIF file.
From Soundtrack,
you simply say export stereo mix.
Takes everything,
mix it down to a single stereo pair,
bring that into Final Cut Pro.
You can actually export out
every individual track or layer
inside of Soundtrack as its
own individual stereo pair,
and then reassemble that entire
project inside of Final Cut Pro,
or more importantly,
reassemble that final project
in another application,
so for example Logic.
So if you use Soundtrack
as a scratch board,
if you will, or maybe as the editor,
you want to create this musical piece,
you have an idea of what you want.
Soundtrack is designed
for video type people,
not really audio people.
So you go in there and you create
something that sounds like what you want.
And then you hand it off to your
musician and he takes that project,
opens it inside Logic and goes, okay,
now I know what he wanted to do,
but I think this will be a little better.
Let's change that.
Let's add an effect here.
Let's throw this half away
because he's obviously an idiot.
And just go on and on
and build the project.
So it's a collaborative
workflow in there.
But anyway,
here we have the piece brought
back in as a single stereo mix.
So the first thing I want to do in here
is mark a couple of important instances,
or important occurrences
on this project here.
The first one I'm going to
mark is the pitch change.
If we listen to it,
It's the same pitch and then a
little bit of a pitch change.
So I want to mark that
pitch change in here.
And you can see it very clearly,
what's going on in here,
and I can go ahead and zoom into that
a little bit more if you want to.
That black bar represents the
timeline or one frame of video.
We're talking about audio,
but we're in a video space,
so we need to think in
the terms of frames.
And even though there's
a lot of audio happening,
you can see the waveform all over the
place in the course of that one frame,
that is the one frame that
I'm actually looking at.
And if I want to cut
on a particular frame,
I can just drag this back and forth,
as you can see.
Now let's just say-- I'm going to zoom in
just a little bit more-- let's just say
that I really wanted to start the cut,
let's just say right there.
But if I drag this back and forth,
you'll see that I can't get to that
because it's snapping to the frame.
Well,
Final Cut Pro actually has subsampling
on here where I can go down to 1/100
of a frame by holding down the--
I thought it was the Command key.
Oh, there we go, Shift key.
I can just drag this in and
go down to 1/100 of a sample--
1/100 of a frame on there.
So I can get down to very,
very accurate trimming on my audio.
If I hit I right now
to mark an end point,
the entire audio project will
slip that fraction of a frame
to accommodate that edit.
So that way, if you have, for example,
a pop that you're trying to get rid of,
or you want to start on the beat,
but the beat really starts there and you
don't want that half of a frame involved,
you can cut that
accurately if you want to.
Let's just back out of that a little bit.
So there is the beat of the Shift pitch.
Let's just go ahead in there,
and I'm going to mark a
marker by tapping the M key.
If you notice,
this tiny little thing happened up here,
that little guy right there,
and that's a marker.
And that marker is just a tag for me,
so that I can reference that later.
I know where something is.
And if I want to modify that
marker to put a name on it,
I can do that as well.
Tap the M key again,
and I can type in here
something like pitch change.
So now I know that that pitch
change has happened on there,
and that's where that marker is.
So I've got that pitch change on there.
Let's just go ahead and, well,
actually I had another
pitch change on here.
I'm going to scrub forward a little bit.
Let's see, I went a little too far there.
Let's zoom back into that.
So there we go.
There's that other pitch change.
So once again, I'll go in here and add
another marker right there.
So now I have two markers
added to my timeline,
or to my audio.
I'm going to go ahead and take this
and add it onto the timeline itself.
And as I add that on there,
you'll see the two markers in place.
So now I know where
those pitch changes are.
Now why did I do that?
Well, I want to cut my video project here
so that some of the cuts or something
happens on those pitch changes,
on those pitch shifts,
and at least now I know
exactly where they are.
I don't have to keep going back over
and over again to try to find them.
All right, so that's in there.
Let's go ahead and zoom into
that portion of the timeline a
little bit and add my first clip.
So here's the first video
clip that I'm going to add.
Nice little purple flowers in here.
As you can see, it's quite long,
and I don't actually
want the whole thing.
Now I showed you basic
marking in and out,
how we just go in and mark
an in point and out point,
and there's our edit.
What I'm going to do now is mark the
in and out a little bit differently.
I'm going to mark it by actual duration.
I'm going to type in the
exact duration that I want.
If I look back down here on the
timeline and I park the playhead
at that first marker there,
you'll see that the duration right now
of that whole project is four seconds
and nine frames up to that point.
Now I want to add this shot on there,
but four seconds and nine
frames of this purple flower
is going to get really sleepy,
so I want to cut this in half.
So I'll cut that in half.
Give or take, we'll call it two
seconds and four frames.
To mark two seconds and four frames,
I'm going to go up to the duration window
in the viewer and simply type in 2.04,
two seconds, four frames.
Hit return,
and it automatically places an out
point at the appropriate location.
Now let's just say
that... Let me undo that.
Let's just say that I know that
I want my clip to start right there,
and then I want it to be two
seconds and four frames from there.
I'll mark an in point on that position,
and then go up here and mark 2.04.
2.04.
Hit return,
and it marks the out point appropriately,
so now I have a two second
and four frame piece.
So there's a lot of different ways to
mark your ins and outs on here to get the
exact duration of the shot that you want.
So here we go.
We've got this piece on here.
Let's just go ahead and drop
this right onto the timeline.
Now I'm dragging this onto the timeline
this time instead of using... the
canvas for a pretty good reason.
The reason being the playhead is
out here in the middle of nowhere.
If I drag this onto the timeline,
I can position it exactly
anywhere that I want.
Let me undo that.
The playhead's still over here.
If I use the canvas overlays,
then it's going to position it
where the canvas playhead is.
So that's something to keep in
mind when you're doing your edits.
Drag and dropping on,
whether you decide to go to
the canvas or to the timeline,
will oftentimes just depend
simply on where your playhead is.
What's the out point?
It didn't.
The play had moved.
Shush.
He works for me.
I can tell him to shush.
This is Kent, by the way.
He did the motion graphics,
the motion demo earlier this week.
Stellar job.
Alright,
so there's that first shot on there.
It's two seconds and four frames long.
Let's get on with things here.
I'm going to open up this next shot,
this golden wheat,
and I'm going to mark an
in-point and an out-point at
a very specific time code now.
So somebody's given me,
the senior editor or whatever,
the director has given me time code.
I want you to lock in from this point on
time to that point on time on this shot.
And I have notes over here in my comments
of where I'm going to mark those,
and I can see that my current
mark is supposed to be,
one of the disadvantages of
having a much more narrow screen,
it can be hard to see
your notes sometimes.
I want to put this one at 2 hours,
15 minutes, 44 seconds, and 20 frames.
That means that this tape came
off of a much longer shoot.
So let's just go ahead up here,
and I can, of course, type that in.
So 2.15, .44, .20, hit return,
and the playhead moves to that position.
It didn't mark an in or an out point,
it simply moved there.
Because that top right window up there,
that top right dialog,
is showing me simply the
current position in time there,
where the playhead currently exists.
And by typing in a number,
I'm telling the playhead to go there.
So the playhead's there,
let's go ahead and mark an in point,
and then I'll do the same
thing for the out point.
I'm going to go up here and type in 2.15,
.48, .23, hit return, and that puts the
playhead where I want it,
and I'll mark the out point there.
Let's go ahead and drop this
piece onto the timeline,
right about like so.
There we go.
And then I'm going to take this
Japanese lantern shot in here,
it's already pre-marked,
so let's just go ahead and drop
that onto the timeline as well.
So let's see here,
I've got a couple of shots in here,
we can play it back now
to see what it looks like.
You see there's a little
focus shift in there.
And a focus shift in there.
Those focus shifts are actually
pretty cool video events,
so I may want to line those up
with some of my audio events.
So let's go ahead and take
a closer look at that.
I'll start with this
Japanese lantern shot.
I open this up, drag the playhead around,
and I'm going to look for
that focus shift there.
And you can see it's right about here.
That occurs over time.
It's not a one-frame instance,
so this is going to be
a little bit sloppy,
but that's all right.
So I'll just pick a couple
frames into that focus shift,
so let's just say right about there.
And again,
I'm going to add a marker down there.
When I add the marker onto this clip,
since I had opened it from the viewer,
you'll see that the marker has been
added to the clip on the timeline itself.
Now,
this marker is one of my beat changes,
right, or one of my occurrences in audio,
so what I want to do is
line up these two markers.
Pretty easy.
To do that,
I use something called the slip tool.
Now, the slip tool is a fairly
interesting tool in the way it works.
Let's say that you have
a shot that's this long,
and you've marked an in-point
here and an in-point here,
or an out-point there.
So you've got just this piece
of the clip that you're using,
and let's just say that
it's one second long.
Now, the slip tool allows me to change
the content of that clip without
changing the duration of it.
So, for example,
the clip is five seconds total.
I've chosen a one-second piece of it.
It's almost as if that
one-second piece is a window,
and I'm reaching through the window,
grabbing the entire clip,
and sliding that clip back
and forth like this to see a
different one-second piece of it.
So the slip tool,
is going to simultaneously change the
in-point and the out-point without
changing the overall duration.
So that means that I can go in here,
grab the slip tool, which is right here,
position that on... I'll just grab
the marker itself and drag it over
like that to line up those two pieces.
And now when I play this back...
[Transcript missing]
Let's talk very quickly
about transitions.
Let's go ahead and add
another shot on here.
I've got another piece of video I'm
going to add to my timeline in here.
And I'll start with a
very simple transition.
A cross is all between these two clips.
There's lots of different ways to
add transitions to your project.
You always have something
called a default transition.
The default transition,
straight out of the box,
is the cross-dissolve.
Clearly one of the most common
transitions used in video and film.
You can change the default
to be whatever you want,
but for now we're just going
to leave it at cross-dissolve.
If I wanted to apply my
default transition between
these two edits in here,
all I have to do is control-click on it
and choose add transition cross-dissolve.
If I change the default
to be something else,
for example a wipe or a page peel,
whatever, it'll show up add transition,
etc.
So I go ahead and click on that and
it adds that transition in there.
And since this is all in real time,
without rendering I can simply...
Play that back.
Now that's a simple transition,
a simple cross-resolve.
There are loads of transitions inside
of Final Cut Pro that you can work with.
And if I open up my effects tab here,
which has mysteriously disappeared.
There we go.
There's my effects tab.
Let me go ahead and put this down
here in my browser where it belongs.
In my effects tab you can
see video transitions.
I have loads of them to choose from.
I actually have quite a few
third-party ones in here.
Eureka is from third-party developers.
The CGM ones are from
third-party developers.
Hopefully Joe Maller is not in
the audience because I don't
think I have his filters loaded.
It's on my other machine, I promise.
But there's a lot of
third-party filters in here.
And then of course our standards,
dissolves, and irises, and maps,
and so on.
And if I want to experiment
with any other transition,
I don't actually have to
go in here and delete this.
I can simply, let's say a wipe.
I'll go in here and take this band wipe,
drag and drop it on, and it replaces the
existing cross-resolve,
and I play that through.
Bono experiment with some more.
Do something like an edge wipe,
drop that on there,
see what that looks like.
wants something a bit more interesting.
Let's go for a page peel in here.
Drop that on there.
Okay, if you ever use this in
real production work,
I guarantee you'll be fired.
[Transcript missing]
All right, so there's my cross dissolve.
Let's go back over here and move
on into some basic compositing.
All righty.
So let's see, here's the first shot that
I'm going to add in here.
It's already pre-marked in here.
Nice shot of the Bay Bridge.
Let's just go ahead and
drop that onto the timeline.
This time I'll drag and
drop it onto the canvas,
since the playhead's in the right place.
Doesn't overwrite.
Drops it on like so.
And then I'm going to
take this next shot,
which is the Golden Gate Bridge again,
but obviously a different time of day.
And I'm going to composite this
on top of the original one.
So here's my original shot.
You'll notice that the one that
I've currently opened doesn't
have any in and outs marked on it.
And if you look up here,
you'll see the total
duration is five seconds.
Now if I was just to take this
and drag it onto the timeline,
you'd see that it is longer
than the shot underneath.
Now I can do this.
I can just drag it on like that
and then drag the playhead back,
or drag the out point back to trim it up.
But that's two steps.
And why do something in two
steps when you can do it in one?
And the way you do that in one step is
by having the playhead over any shot.
So for example,
this Golden Gate shot here,
I can take this shot, drag it over,
and choose superimpose.
What superimpose will do is-- position
that clip on top of the one underneath
it and trim it to fit automatically.
Now if I already had an in
point marked on that clip,
it would match the in
points and then trim it.
If I had an out point marked,
it would match the out points
and then trim the rest.
But the point is that it makes
it fit with just one step.
So now I have these two shots
stacked on top of each other.
At the moment,
since there's no transparency, opacity,
or anything applied to
this top shot in here,
you're seeing only the top clip.
And that's what I'm going to change.
And this is where we get into
some basic compositing here.
So let's start by changing-- changing
the in point on here to match a beat.
Let's listen for a good
beat in here to cut it to.
I think right there.
So let's just put the
playhead right about so,
take this, and drag it over like that.
So now I am looking at first this shot,
and then the nighttime shot.
Now right now, this is no different than
having one shot after another,
because once again,
we're seeing the entirety of this clip.
But let's go ahead and get into
the compositing part of this,
and you'll see how these things
are going to all come together.
Basically what I want to do is I want
to see both of these shots side by side.
I'm going to crop them and
reposition them on the timeline
so I'm seeing both of them.
However, if I take this bottom shot right
now and I crop it and reposition it,
it's going to be cropped and
repositioned up here as well.
And for this first part of it,
I want it to remain full screen.
So to make sure that I don't
affect the entire clip,
I'm going to take something
called the razor blade tool,
go down here on the timeline,
click on there, and slice that clip.
I've now cut it in half effectively,
and I can position this clip elsewhere.
I can move it around,
do whatever I want to it,
and it is treated as a separate piece.
You'll notice, however,
that when they're together-- OK,
I am going to kill myself on that.
You'll notice that there's little red
arrows in here pointing at each other.
That tells me that this
is a seamless break,
that there is unique time
code or progressive time code
between these two frames.
So for example,
the last frame on that first clip
is frame 70 and then first frame
of the next one is frame 71.
They go together,
and that little red marker
there shows me that.
And I can actually go in here,
Control-click on that,
and say Join Through Edit,
and it will heal that break.
It's kind of nice.
Back to work here.
Let's go ahead and take this first shot
here and do some basic compositing.
Now again, I'll spend a little bit more
time on this in the advanced one.
I'm going to go through
this fairly quickly here.
This top shot is sitting right here.
I can just drag it around in the canvas,
position it wherever I like.
What I'm going to do is take my cropping
tool and crop this shot in a little bit.
Let's just crop it like so, like so,
bring this down a little bit,
and that down a little bit, like that,
and position it about like that.
There we go.
And the bottom shot,
the one underneath it,
I'm going to do the same thing.
Let's slide it over like so.
cropping it a little bit.
Looks like I need to crop this in.
Just very quickly go in here and do this.
So now I have these two shots
on the timeline side by side.
So now if I play this back.
I've got the two shots of the bridge.
Now, that was all manual,
just clicking and dragging
to get those in there.
If I want to get a little
bit more control into that,
I, of course, can.
Let's go ahead and open
this up into the viewer.
There you see the shot on its own
against a transparent background.
If I click on the Motion tab,
you'll see all of my actual controls,
numeric controls.
So, for example,
my cropping settings in here,
my basic positioning settings, and so on.
So, if I wanted to go in here and
numerically change some of these,
I could,
but we'll just leave it as it is for now.
That's close enough.
So,
there's that shot all set up in there.
But I do want to make
some more changes to this,
so let's go ahead and listen to it again.
And there's another beat,
and I want something else
to happen on the next beat.
So, let's see, what am I going to do?
Let's go ahead and
take these pieces here.
I'm going to copy and paste.
I pasted right where the playhead was,
so now I have a duplicate of those.
And I'm going to take that
second set and nest them.
If I go under the sequence settings here,
I can say nest items.
What nesting items does is
it takes any number of clips.
This can be two clips,
it can be a thousand clips,
and it collapses them
to one single piece.
Now, for all intents and purposes,
looking at it on the timeline,
it's going to appear as a single clip.
But the beauty of Final Cut Pro is,
since it's non-destructive,
I can double-click on that nest
and open it up to a new timeline.
That new timeline shows me
everything that I had nested.
I can make changes in that,
close the nest,
back to the original timeline,
and all the changes will be updated.
So, in here,
I'll just call this the Golden Gate Nest,
hit OK, and as you can see,
it is now showing up as a single
clip on the timeline in there.
If I double-click it,
it opens up into a new timeline
or a new project there,
a new sequence, excuse me,
and you can see the two
clips that I nested.
Let's go ahead and close that.
Back to this piece,
and I'm going to do some
work on this shot here.
So, the work that I want to do
is to apply a filter to it.
You know,
you haven't seen me apply filters yet,
and this is definitely getting
into more of the advanced stuff,
which I'm actually going to skip
past a lot of for this demo.
But just to show you what I'm
going to do and where I'll be
spending time in the next demo,
if I go into my video filters here,
somewhere, you know what,
I actually have it saved off right here.
There we go, replicate.
I'm going to take this replicate filter,
drag and drop that onto there.
I'm going to put a
replicate function in there.
I'll then take that replicate
function and over time,
and I'm just going to
do this very quickly,
but again, we'll spend time on it later.
Add a couple of markers on there.
Increase the complexity
of that filter over time.
So now we go the two shots, replicate it,
replicate it again.
So that's the more complex
compositing effect.
And again, I'll spend more time on
that in the next session.
Let's know, no it shouldn't be,
let's just find it.
Replicate.
It lives, oh well, okay that one does.
I don't think that's
the one I used though.
Stylize, there you go.
The CGM filters do have a more
advanced replicate filter,
but I'm pretty sure I just
used the basic one here.
All righty.
So there's that.
Let's take a look at the time remap tool.
This is a lot of fun.
Did any of you guys see the quick
time intro presentation Frank Casanova
delivered on Tuesday morning?
Only a couple of you.
Okay, good.
So this won't be too repetitive.
This next piece is what I actually
demoed in that presentation,
although I did go through it very,
very quickly there.
I'll spend just a little bit more time,
not a whole lot here.
Again, this is something more
for the advanced segment.
But here we go.
Here's that shot of the pool break.
And as you can see, it's just a nice,
clean little pool break shot on there.
I've already pre-marked exactly
the point where the cue hits.
If I back up one frame,
you see it's right
before it's going to hit,
and there's the hit.
So I've got that break marked.
And if I scrub forward in the
timeline a little bit here,
Let's see here,
I need to find the position where
I want to actually mark that break.
Let's go ahead and listen to this.
Okay, that beat right there is where
I want to mark that break.
So let's go ahead and zoom
into that a little bit.
There it is right there,
and I'll position this
clip on the timeline,
and then of course just slip that back.
So, oh, I forgot to mark the break.
Silly me.
There we go.
Is that it?
Mark the break, and I can mark it on
the audio clip itself,
drag this into place here,
and let's just slide those over
so that they line up like so.
There we go.
Okay, there we go.
So, there's a little gap in here.
I'll come back and fill that up later.
What I really am concentrating now on,
though, is, of course,
this shot and the fact that that
break lines up with that beat.
If we keep listening to the music,
and of course you saw me play this
in full screen in the beginning,
so you know what I'm going to do in here.
But if you listen to it,
you'll hear a repeat of
that heavy beat on there.
[Transcript missing]
So let's go ahead and I'll put a marker,
and this time I'll just put
a marker on the timeline
itself instead of on the clip.
It doesn't really matter
where I'm going to put it now.
Let's put it on the timeline.
And I'm going to end up
having something happen there.
Now before I go in here and I start
remapping the time on this shot
to make that beat line up twice,
or make that break rather line up twice,
I want to make sure that
after the break here,
the balls do continue to go
out for a little bit before
anything funky happens to them.
So let's just scrub back
here really quickly,
scrub forward a little bit, and I'll say,
no, that's far enough.
I want to make sure that they
play at least to that point,
so I've just added
another keyframe there.
And then if I drag forward to that next
beat and I click on here and drag back,
what I'm doing here in remapping time is
dragging that frame backwards to get that
break lined up just perfectly like that.
So now the break is hitting twice.
Now what's just happened here?
Let's take a look at
the graph underneath.
This is time versus the actual frame.
And notice that if this line was to go
from here to here in a straight line,
that would be normal time.
As it goes up in here, though,
you'll see that it goes down.
Well, anything downhill is
actually moving backwards,
and I can also see that
by these red hash marks.
Red hash marks tell me
I'm moving backwards.
So I'm moving backwards from this
position back to the break again.
So technically, that's what I wanted,
except that it doesn't look
that good because the cue ball
never goes back to the stick.
So let's go ahead and go
somewhere in between this shot,
add one more keyframe,
and back this shot up so the
cue ball is just at the stick.
Let's say right about there.
Good enough.
And play that again.
Too bad, pretty easy.
HD, real time.
High definition,
doing that kind of timing mapping
in real time is totally unheard of.
That's kind of fun.
All right, moving on.
How much time do I have for this?
Not much.
All right.
Keep your questions coming as we go.
Basically,
the way that the timing works on this,
by the way, I've got 20-odd minutes left,
about 21 minutes left.
Supposed to spend about the last 10,
15 minutes doing Q&A.
But if you keep your
questions coming throughout,
then I can keep going up to the end.
If you feel like you're going
to have questions at the end,
then I'll need to stop
a little bit early.
So what do you think?
Questions throughout,
or do you have questions that
you're holding to the end?
[Transcript missing]
Doesn't that look lovely?
Sets that down on the cup.
There we go.
So it's a nice long shot on there.
It's already marked on the timeline here.
And I need to put this on a
specific spot on the timeline.
So let me just check my
notes here and see where am
I supposed to put this thing.
This is the great thing about Final Cut.
Your little comments column gives you
all your hints that you need for a long
demo like this to see exactly what in
the world you're supposed to do next.
All right, so... I have no idea where
I'm supposed to put this.
Excuse me.
Excuse me while I figure out what I did
at 3 in the morning two months ago.
Oh, here we go.
Look at that.
Put it at... There's my time code.
I knew it was in there somewhere.
All right, I have a note in here of where
I want to position this in time.
This little time code readout here is
the time code of the timeline itself.
So once again,
as I drag the playhead back and forth,
you see that updating,
or I can go in here and type in a number,
for example, 3003,
to position the playhead
at a specific point.
So there's the playhead at that point.
I'm now going to take
this shot and add it.
Just do an override edit.
It adds it on there.
And if I zoom into this,
you'll see that we have a gap in there.
That is actually intentional.
What I'm going to do is
fill that gap with a slug.
Now,
that just puts a black nothing there.
I could technically just leave it open,
but gaps in the timeline is
generally considered a bad
idea for a number of reasons.
One of the most important being
that it's entirely too easy to,
let's just say I left that gap blank,
to take this and slide it
backwards later in time and not
realize that I had shifted it,
because there's nothing
keeping it from moving.
If I, however, have that slug in there,
it makes it a little bit
harder to move that back.
A lot of my ripple and roll effects,
the kind of things that would work,
the kind of things that would move
things on the timeline will say,
"Yo, can't do it.
There's something in the way."
So that's why I put that slug in there.
It also would allow me to do a transition
if I wanted to between two shots.
And I'm not going to
do a transition here.
I'm actually going to use the pen
tool to simply do a quick fade to
black on the end of this shot here.
That pen tool is my opacity ramp,
and if I step through this,
you'll see here that, step through,
step through, there we go,
it's now fading to black over time there.
So it fades to black into that slug.
All right, so there's this shot here
of the cappuccino cup.
So I have a couple things
that I want to do in here.
You'll notice that, well, first of all,
him putting the cup down is missing.
But if you remember
from the original shot,
there's actually a long time between
when he picks that cup up and
when he sets it back down again.
And frankly,
we don't want to sit there and
stare at the newspaper all day,
so we're going to,
it's not Sunday morning after all,
we are going to trim that shot out,
trim that gap out of there.
So let's just go ahead and play this.
And I've stopped it, now I'm moving,
using the arrow keys,
moving one frame at a time.
And I'm going to position the playhead
just where the cup exits the frame.
Once again, with my razor blade tool,
I'm going to go down here and cut that.
Now, what I'm doing is separating the
first half from the second half.
And now the next thing that I want
to do is use the slip tool again
to slip that shot to choose a
different in-point and out-point.
Remember from my description before,
the slip tool does not change
the duration of the shot,
but it does allow me to change
the in-point and out-point of it,
again, without affecting the duration.
So let's go ahead and take the slip tool,
click and drag on there.
And as I drag this,
you'll see up in the canvas that I have
two windows that popped up showing me
the new in-point and the new out-point.
And so I'm going to drag this back, back,
back,
until I get to just before the cup comes
back into picture on the in-point there.
So there's, again, the in-point.
Let's drag that up right about so.
And now if I play this back.
I've created a jump cut.
A jump cut means that I've
cut a piece out of it,
it's just jumping forward in time,
and there's a simple
little edit on there.
In fact, I think I'll slide that
forward just a tiny little bit,
make that look a little cleaner.
Sure.
Question, go ahead.
Ah, keyboard shortcuts.
The love of keyboard shortcuts.
How am I switching between tools
so quickly was the question.
There are lots of tools in here.
If I hover over any one of them,
it will tell you what
the keyboard shortcut is.
Selection tool is A.
So I tap the A key, boom, it grabs that.
The slip tool is S,
so I tap the S key and it grabs that.
In fact, if I hold out on here,
you'll see that the
time remap tool is SSS.
So, there's keyboard shortcuts
that are combinations of keys,
so tap the S key three times.
You may have noticed that that just
changed to the time remapping tool.
So, there you go,
that's how you change that.
And once again, if you want to change any
of those keyboard shortcuts,
you can using the handy-dandy
customized keyboard shortcut tool.
Let me just talk about this real
quick since we're in here again.
Let's say that I wanted
to change that slip tool.
I go in here and I search for slip.
There's the slip tool.
Current keyboard shortcut is S.
Let's go ahead and unlock the
keyboard and let's say that
for some strange reason I want
to make it control shift F12.
Let's just drag that over here.
Drag that onto control
shift F12 and there you go.
It now has both S and control
shift F12 as the keyboard shortcut.
Kind of handy.
You want to get rid of that.
We just go poof and off it goes.
Alrighty then.
So, here we go.
Back to this.
So, I have this shot here.
You may remember from the original
playback of the final piece that I'm
going to have three graphical elements,
three frames of that cappuccino
cup coming down into play.
So let's go ahead and set that up.
All of the work that I'll do is going
to be based off of this shot here.
If I open this shot into the viewer,
you see once again it's from
the timeline because of the
little sprocket holes there.
I'm going to choose a good frame.
Now I know that I want three.
I want three individual frames
of this cup coming down,
so I need to time them intelligently.
Let's just go ahead and choose
that frame as my first frame.
And then under,
I believe it's under modify, there we go,
I can choose something
called make freeze frame.
What make freeze frame does is
it takes that single frame of
video and it makes it a still.
So I now have a still
of that frame in there.
You see if I drag the timeline,
or drag the playhead,
nothing's happening in there.
So there's that still.
So let's go ahead and add
that still onto the timeline.
So drag that onto there.
Boom, like so.
And it is clearly really, really long.
And there's that first shot on there.
So I've got that in place.
I do need to shorten
that up a little bit.
So let's just go in here and
trim that down a little like so.
Zoom back into this
portion of the timeline.
And let's see again what that looks like.
Okay, so we're off to the good start.
I now need to get the additional
frames that I want on there.
So back to this shot,
and I'm going to fly through
this part of it here.
I'm going to go down to about there,
hit Shift N,
which is the keyboard shortcut,
to make that still frame,
and I'll choose Superimpose
so that it adds that still
frame above the original one.
Let's go ahead and hide that.
So now I have the second
still frame right there,
and I will then target just this track
so that the next time I do a superimpose,
it goes on top of this one.
And let's go back to this shot,
grab the third frame,
let's say right there, Shift N again,
and Superimpose, edit that.
So now I have all three of those
shots clearly on top of each other,
not a whole lot going on there,
so let's go ahead and space
these out a little bit so that
they're happening over time,
like so.
Except it looks like I got
them in the wrong order,
so let's go ahead and
position that like so,
and that one down there,
and that one there,
and shorten this one here,
and lengthen that one there,
and I think now I got them right.
Let's see.
There we go.
So now they're in the right order.
Kind of on the beat, close enough.
Let's just go ahead and trim that
to the beat a little bit better.
I can see, looking at the audio on
here on the timeline,
that I'm not quite on the beat,
so let's just go ahead and
position the playhead like so,
drag those out,
and that should match a little cleaner.
Excellent.
All right.
So now I need to set up the whole
graphical element part of this.
Again,
something I'll spend more time on later,
but let's just fly through this.
Let's see here.
I'm going to take this shot and
do a little cropping on here.
You saw me do that before,
so let's just not rearrange
the entire UI here.
Let's reset that.
There we go.
With my crop tool,
I'm going to shrink that down.
I want about a third of
the frame taken up in here,
like so.
And if I want to get these
out of the way to hide them,
I can just do that by hitting Control-B,
and it hides those other shots.
So now I no longer have
those other ones in the way.
I'm only concentrating
on this first shot here.
So that looks pretty good.
Let's go to the second one here,
make sure the playhead is over it,
and reveal it.
And let's go ahead and
crop that in again.
I keep doing that.
This is, by the way,
a really cool feature in Final Cut Pro,
even though I keep
dragging it accidentally.
The ability to grab any
seam between windows and
rearrange the size of your UI.
Isn't that kind of handy?
That's kind of cool.
All right.
Reset that back to normal.
Arrange to up.
There we go.
All right, where was I?
I need to crop that shot down,
so let's just go ahead and
bring that shot in like so,
reposition it like so,
and then the third one, of course,
I need to do as well.
1, 2, 3, clip, clip, like this.
Ah, there we go.
Drag that over.
Okay, now this could be a lot cleaner,
and I will spend more time in
the next demo making it cleaner,
but this is good enough for now.
So there's my three shots,
and here's how they're playing it.
Not too bad, huh?
That's kind of cool.
On the beat.
So now I need to colorize those shots,
so to do that I'm going to once
again just give you a quick
little taste of how that works.
Let's go ahead in here
and open up my tint tool,
which I already have saved off.
Drag that onto here,
open up the tint tool,
into the filters tab,
and change the color of this.
And of course using the color picker
I can make that any color that I want.
Looks a little hideous there,
let's drop this opacity
down a little bit,
like so, so now it's kind of red.
And then,
quick little advanced tip for you,
I'm going to take these
next two shots on here,
take this tint tool,
and drag it onto those so it
applies to those other ones as well.
Now since the opacity level
is set for that first one,
it's now set for the second one,
and if I don't want to
change anything but the hue,
I can go in here and quickly change
the hue of these next three shots,
and I end up with that.
[Transcript missing]
Well, they were never actually
created in the Finder.
They only exist inside of Final Cut Pro.
So they actually require the
original video clip to be
present for them to access that.
They're simply looking at a single
frame of video from the original clip
on the hard drive and then saying,
play just this one clip
for X amount of time.
You said it.
Well, you can't-- if I drag this from
here back into the timeline,
like so, or back into the browser,
it is now an asset in the browser.
However, it does not exist on the hard
drive as a separate clip.
If I wanted to make it a
separate clip on the timeline,
I could.
I can simply go in here and say export
and use QuickTime conversion and
convert that to a TIFF or PSD file,
whatever you like.
So I can do that as well.
All right.
Great, 12 minutes left.
How are we doing on questions?
Anything else while
I jump to the next one?
In here?
Well, when you were changing the color.
OK, I was simply double-clicking
on the clips.
Let's go ahead and zoom back into here.
If I double-click on this,
it brings up the viewer.
There's my Video tab,
and there's my Filters tab.
Now, if I double-click on the next one,
it opens the same shot in the viewer
and the same shot in the viewer again.
No, there's no way to like solo.
You can, well, when you say show it,
you mean show it in the playback
or show it on the timeline?
In playback, yes, you can.
If I go into down here, let's see here,
this is my visible clip.
If I click on that, it turns it off.
Or if I option click on that,
it turns everything off except that one,
and then I can go in and turn
on just the ones that I want.
There you go.
The question is,
can you add more transitions
to the control click?
I presume you meant keyboard shortcut.
No, it only applies to the
default shortcut in there.
So whatever the default one is, is there.
Now you can save out favorites,
and you can have a favorites
folder where your favorite ones
are more easily accessible,
but they are still only one
accessible at a time under
the control keyboard shortcut.
All righty, what is next?
I have absolutely no idea.
Let's see here.
Simple Graphic Effects Part 2,
I just did that.
Complex Adjustment for Transitions,
I'm definitely going to
skip that one for now.
Let's do a hue shift over time.
Let's do this one.
I'm going to actually open up
a new sequence that is just a
little bit farther along in this
project since I'm skipping a step.
Just pretend that you saw me
already add this shot in here.
There's the shot of the nighttime bridge,
which is a nice shot,
but frankly a little
bit boring for too long.
What I want to do to this is add
a color effect to it and then have
that color effect change over time.
This is one of those seemingly
really advanced features that's
actually just dead easy to do.
Let's go ahead and do that.
Color Correction,
there's two different color correction
tools and I will next go into
the other color correction tool,
but this time I'm going to
just choose under Effects,
Video Filters, Color Correction.
Here we go.
There's several of them.
I'm going to choose this one.
This color correction tool,
here's my little visual interface button,
brings up two color wheels.
The first color wheel,
the one on the left, is my color balance.
This applies to the entire image.
Color balance for the entire image.
The other color corrector,
which you'll see in a minute,
has three different color
wheels just for balance.
One for highs, one for lows,
and one for black, whites, and mids.
That's what I meant to say.
This one additionally has a hue rotator.
While I have only one
control over my balance,
I have an entire control
just for the hue.
If I take this shot,
let's get rid of those lines on there,
if I take this shot and
I rotate the hue on there,
you can see how the hue of
that shot is changing right
directly there in the canvas.
If I wanted to do a little
before and after on here,
I mentioned different window layouts.
Let's go up here and choose
a color correction layout.
The color correction
layout shows me my scopes.
I'm not going to talk about those,
but it also shows me my frame viewer.
Just because this screen is so small,
I'm going to do something horrible
and totally mess up my UI.
Just so that you can see the before
and after there more clearly.
As I rotate through the color wheel,
you can see that up here,
I have a little bit of a blur.
You can see that updating
in real time on there.
I can see immediately
my before and after.
Kind of a nice little tool in there.
Let's go back to standard 2-up layout.
I've got this shot in here.
I've rotated the hue.
That's great, but as I said,
I want to have this change over time.
To do that, we keyframe it.
Let's go ahead and drag the playhead
here to the beginning of that shot.
Back to the color corrector here.
I'm going to reset the hue back
to its standard default setting.
Actually, I'm going to go back
to the default setting.
To do that,
the easiest way to do that is simply
click on the little white ball there,
which resets it.
I will mark a keyframe.
Keyframes, for anybody who's not
familiar with keyframes,
the whole idea of a keyframe
is I lock in a position here,
whether it's a color, or a position,
or a crop, or a scale, or anything.
Lock it here in time,
then I lock it here in time
in a different setting,
and the computer figures
out what goes in between.
I've just put this keyframe at no effect.
Then I'll drag the playhead
to the end of this shot here.
I will rotate the hue.
When I do that, since I've made a change,
it automatically added a keyframe for me.
It knows that I want to
put a keyframe there,
so it just adds it.
If I change my mind,
I can just go in here and delete
that keyframe easily enough.
I've just added those two keyframes,
one with no effect,
and then one with a nearly
180 degree hue rotation.
Now if I play this back,
see that he rotated over time.
Kind of cool.
It's a simple effect,
seemingly complex effect,
but actually very simple
to apply on there.
All right,
let's move forward a little bit into
basic color correction or standard
color correction I should say.
I have on here this
great windsurfer shot,
but as you can see it's a
little bit on the yellow side.
So let's just go ahead and add
this piece on to the timeline here.
It's already pre-marked for me.
I need to mark in and outs on here.
And, is that right?
Actually I should have marked in and out,
but that's okay.
There's the shot on there.
I want to do some color
correction on there,
so let's just take that shot and add
this time the three-way color corrector.
The three-way color corrector gives me,
as I said before, a lot more control.
I have individual
controls over my blacks,
my mids, and my white levels.
Now what you're looking at
here in these three wheels is
several different things at once.
You're seeing the color
balance for the black,
mids, and whites, and you're seeing the
levels for the black,
mids, and whites.
So the difference being you could
have something that is supposed
to be black that's a little bit
too bright so it looks gray,
and a little bit too green
so it looks greenish gray.
So there's two things
that you need to do.
You need to reset the
color back to black,
but until you adjust the levels
it's going to actually look gray,
right?
So there's two different
things to control in here.
And that's controlled by color balance,
and then underneath that,
underneath those balance wheels
are the sliders for the levels.
So I'm going to start by
adjusting the color balance.
The white, as we can see in the blue,
is very, very yellow, foggy, muggy, icky.
So I'm just going to go in here and
grab the eyedropper tool and say that's
supposed to be white right there,
and it resets that to white.
And as you can see,
it's added a whole lot of blue to
the image to make it look white.
I'll go back in here and do
the same thing with the blacks.
It looks like there should
be some black right about,
we'll just call this black right there.
Click on that,
and I actually really missed that.
So let's undo that,
zoom into it a little bit so I can get
And maybe that really
wasn't supposed to be black,
so let's find something
that should be black.
How about, that definitely looks like
a black shadow in there.
Let's go ahead and eye drop her there.
There we go.
That looks a little bit better.
Now, again, I've changed the colors,
but it still looks a little washed out.
So let's go ahead and bring
up our whites a little bit,
bring up the white levels a
little bit to brighten that up.
And I'll bring my blacks
down just a touch.
And maybe I'll increase
the gamma ever so slightly.
And then let's just saturate
it as well to bring some punch
into those colors on there.
And there's the final image.
If you want to see a before and after,
let's go ahead and bring up the
frame viewer for a comparison.
And there's a before and after in there.
Not too bad, huh?
And that's just quick, quick click.
Almost any shot can be improved with
this color correction tool without even
getting into the advanced settings of it.
Just go reset black, reset white,
adjust levels, done.
And if you've shot,
let's say you're shooting, I know,
Christmas morning or something,
and talking on the consumer level,
you're in the same lighting
situation throughout the morning.
You've got the same color
correction that needs to be applied.
So you apply it to one clip.
Figure out what to do.
And then copy that same color
correction to all your clips.
So it doesn't actually
have to take all day to do.
All right.
How do you copy it?
So let's just go ahead and do that.
I've got another shot on here.
Funny you should ask.
I have another shot on here that
needs the exact same treatment,
so I'll add this onto
the timeline in here.
Let's go ahead and zoom back into those.
So this one has the treatment,
this one does not.
There's several ways you can do it.
I can simply go to the color corrector,
grab this tool here,
and drag it onto this shot, like so.
Or there's a really cool
little thing in here,
copy one forward, or the next one over
says copy two forward.
What this does is it will copy
the same effect to the next clip,
or skip a clip and go to the next one.
Why would you want to skip a clip?
Think of the two-up interview.
I interviewed you, I interviewed me.
I've got two shots on there,
back and forth, back and forth,
back and forth.
Well,
I need to apply one color correction to
this shot and another one to this shot.
This will allow me to instantly
just skip the shot of me,
for example, and apply the color
correction to the shot of you.
I just skip over leapfrogging.
So there we go.
So there's a couple more things
that I do want to do in here.
However, they are going to be saved
for the advanced demo as well,
and that is going to include
titling done with Live Type,
which is included with Final Cut Pro.
So I've got about three
minutes and 53 seconds left.
So let's see if we've got any more
questions before I skip out of here.